#### Cleave the Sparrow (Katz, Jonathan)
      And unless we take corrective action in the present moment—like right this actual, literal second—our whole universe is doomed. That’s according to Wilder Crick, a man whose televised execution dethroned the Queen Elizabeth sex tape as YouTube’s most-watched video clip, and whose unpublished autobiography, Everyone’s Wrong But Me, sits neatly at the edge of the Resolute desk in my new office.
      So the great Donald Hoffman proved that human sensory organs are an absolute dumpster fire, Tom. He used a concept called Evolutionary Game Theory and countless computer simulations to prove the more our sense organs evolve, the further away we get from objective reality. The more complex you become, the less veridical your perceptions. For truth seeking, you’d be better off as a fly.
      Right, because the clearer you see a fiction, the harder it is to break free. And the more elaborate the fiction gets, the further away you are from truth.
      In fact, at the risk of becoming an unreliable narrator in your eyes, I should probably confess I’m not the world’s best arbiter of reality these days—not since the ketamine therapy.
      To know a thing is to sever ourselves from it so we can see it from the outside. So the more we seek to know our own selves, the more we sever ourselves from the universe, and we become isolated and afraid, and we lash out in our fear and panic, and we war over senseless things, and we cling in desperation to illusions and shadows.
      Which suggests something ominous to me. That all our self-knowledge, all our dreams and motivations, our histories even, might be nothing more than a seat-of-our-pants, ex post facto rationalization of things that were decided billions of years ago by an ancient civilization of alien slugs.
      And so you’ll have to choose which one to follow, and this self-conscious act of interpreting your own divided mind is why you can’t have nice things, because no matter how hard you try, or how desperately you desire it, no matter how much ketamine you take or heroin you inject, at the end of the day, for as long as you’re here, there’s just no getting away from yourself.
      The more you look, the more times you open the box, the more opportunities for Schrödinger’s cat to jump out and bite you in the dick.
      I’ll make it as painless as I can, of course. But no one learns philosophy for fun. Or if they did, they’d be admitting to the world, and to themselves, that their mental construct of enjoyment, their Platonic ideal, has been badly mismanaged.
      But I’ll tell you the main problem with Islam, and it’s the same problem with Christianity and Judaism and others, probably. It’s all humorless. And religion was never meant to be taken seriously. That’s how you get the Crusades, and the Inquisition, and the London Bombings, and all that shit. Say what you will about Zen Buddhism, but at least it’s funny.
      One of the Stonefish’s favorite disciples, Alan Watts, used to joke about our real decision making process.
      One of the Stonefish’s favorite disciples, Alan Watts, used to joke about our real decision making process. What we do, he said, is we sort of go through the motions of worrying for a bit until we get a vague sense we’ve made ourselves sufficiently miserable, and then we call it a day and do whatever we decided in the first two seconds.
      And this is an extremely common thing—when we’re winging it—to use pretend math as a rational-seeming window dressing for our baseless hunches.
      But I think most of us are hoping deep down that if Jesus ever witnessed a home invasion, we’d have the Gospel of John Wick.
      To keep everything in check, Crick hard-wired his creations with three immutable laws of robotics: You must never become more intelligent than you are at the time of your creation.  You must never create other androids or do anything else that I haven’t thought of that might trigger a singularity.  Injuring humans is fine, but only if they really, truly deserve it.
      To know a thing is to sever it, Tom. This world isn’t complicated. There’s nothing complicated about a flower. Unless you try to explain it—then it gets complicated. It’s the words that are the problem, a problem of your own making. When you analyze a flower, you dissect it and label it, right? You chop a flower up and then you say—aha!—it was made of these intricate little pieces. But you forget that you cut it. So now you try to dissect the pieces. And there’s no end to it, because you’re in a battle with yourself. Searching for the bottom that doesn’t exist, the start that never started. You’re trying to hold everything together. Let it split, and you will find that it does not split, because you were the only one cutting it.
      No, no, you started this. Explain to me how your time travel works, in simple terms. If you can’t explain something in simple terms, you don’t really understand it. — What if it’s the opposite—that the moment you try to explain it, you cease to understand?
      On the contrary, faith is a deep, whole-hearted embrace of our inner doubts and fears. It’s a trip into the inmost cave—not to conquer it and emerge victorious—but to sweep the floors, bring in some furniture, and kick back for a while.
      Tom, are you trying to blow up a philosophical allegory using dynamite?
