#### Closer Encounters (Jorjani, Jason Reza)
      The US Intelligence Community and the Department of Defense have officially reported that structured craft that appear to defy the laws of Physics, and that outperform anything known to be manufactured by any terrestrial nation, including the USA, have repeatedly engaged American military pilots and sailors.
      Rather, the idea is that the very nature of our Cosmos is that it is a programmable (and re-programmable) information processing system.
      The Pentagon now admits that numerous types of data have been collected on these “Unidentified Aerial Phenomena,” including gun camera video, thermal imaging, sensor readings, radar tracking, and satellite photography. This information was collected and analyzed by the Advanced Aerospace Threat Identification Program (AATIP), a secret UFO study group within the Department of Defense, which was headed by Luis Elizondo, a military intelligence officer.
      Finally, on December 27, 2020, President Trump signed a $2.3 trillion Coronavirus Relief and Government Funding Bill that strangely had tucked into it an order to Director of National Intelligence (DNI) John Ratcliff to submit to Congress, within 180 days, an unclassified report (which could include a classified annex) that gathered together everything that the Office of Naval Intelligence and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) knows about UFOs or UAP.
      Unconventional Flying Objects is a scientific book, full of equations and graphs that organize data about UFO performance with a view to identifying patterns that would allow one to deduce what kind of propulsions system, navigational principles, and metallurgical engineering could account for what has been observed.
      Our thesis is that the origins of this taboo are political. As political scientists, we are concerned with a possible connection between the need to dismiss the UFO and the way in which modern peoples organize and govern their societies. The inability to see clearly and talk rationally about UFOs seems to be a symptom of authoritative anxiety, a socially subconscious fear of what the reality of the UFO might mean for modern government.
      The sovereign identity of modern states depends on their difference from one another. Anything that required subsuming this difference into a global sovereignty would threaten the fundamental structure of these states, quite apart from the risk of physical destruction.
      Only that body who can authoritatively and effectively decide who lives and who dies, the body that can legitimately demand of citizens that they go out to die for their country in a war, or who decides that certain people must be left to die so that others can survive a certain catastrophe — only that body is sovereign.65
      many, if not most, of the beings that native Brazilians have observed inside the UFOs are fair-skinned European-looking people.
      Worldview warfare is the war between various forms of life, which could be whole societies, over the constitution of reality. What that further implies is that all systems of knowledge are conditioned by power relations. This includes every type of scientific theorization. Science is political through and through. It is not only used for political purposes or distorted by them. Rather, every scientific paradigm is radically political in its motivations and in the ways in which it wants to define and control life.
      In other words, those time machines that we call “UFOs” are actually Matrix re-programming devices engaged in a struggle to master the narrative of a cosmic game.
      Masters ventures the speculation that time travelers from the future may be coming here in their UFOs in order to re-diversify the gene pool, because Nazi-style eugenic policies using advanced biotechnology, and aiming at a certain narrow ideal of “perfection,” have led to a dangerous level of population-wide genetic uniformity amongst them.403
      The Book of the Damned (1919), New Lands (1923), Lo! (1931), and Wild Talents (1932),
      A potential Spectral Revolution in the sciences could afford us our own Psychotronic technology, which, together with other Promethean Transhuman technologies, could allow us to eat of the Tree of Life that was denied to us in Eden.
      Born Maximiani Portas in 1905 in Lyons, France, to an English mother and a Greek father, “Savitri Devi” (as she would come to call herself) converted to Hinduism, moved to India, and created a Traditionalist cult around the idea that Adolf Hitler was an incarnation of Vishnu. She wrote a number of books promoting this idea, most notably The Lightning and the Sun, texts which, together with the writings of Miguel Serrano, became the basis for a neo-Nazi “Esoteric Hitlerism.”731
      Scientific studies at Skinwalker Ranch reached the conclusion that this Trickster is a Precognitive Sentient Phenomenon (PSP), and perhaps its precognitive or anticipatory mindedness is the same quality that the Greeks referred to as promethea.
      we must overthrow all governments and abolish all nations, replacing them with a universal Prometheist order dedicated to securing personal liberty, social development, technical innovation, unbounded creative expression, cosmic exploration and scientific discovery.
      Most people — including self-styled “scientists” — want truth as little as they want real freedom, and they are far from being capable of handling either in a responsible fashion. Rather, most people want to be lied to and they want to be led by deceivers — but in a way that is hidden well enough to flatter their pathetic egos with the pleasing illusion that they are free agents being presented with all of the facts. They want their Savior Jesus Christ, or their Infallible Quran, or their Devas, or firm Laws of Nature in a soulless and mechanistically materialist Cosmos, or Space Brothers from Venus, or Grays from the Future who are here to save the ecosystem. We are not interested in saving this pathetic excuse for “humanity.”
      we are willing to reduce the population by 99% if it is the only way that the 1% of free-thinking goats who are left can become the nucleus of a new Promethean world society. Humanity never appreciated the sacrifice of Prometheus, and Prometheus is not a ninny who will remain chained to that rock forever, waiting for most people to recognize his intercession on their behalf. We recognize that sacrifice, but we are not humanity — not anymore. If there are aliens involved in Close Encounters, it is because the meta-narrative function of the phenomenon produces aliens. We are the aliens. We are the Wings of an Other World — the World of Tomorrow.
