#### Confessions of an Economic Hit Man, 3rd Edition (Perkins, John)
      Economic hit men (EHMs) are highly paid professionals who cheat countries around the globe out of trillions of dollars. They funnel money from the World Bank, the US Agency for International Development (USAID), and other foreign “aid” organizations into the coffers of huge corporations and the pockets of a few wealthy families who control the planet’s natural resources. Their tools include fraudulent financial reports, rigged elections, payoffs, extortion, sex, and murder. They play a game as old as empire, but one that has taken on new and terrifying dimensions during this time of globalization. I should know; I was an EHM.*

      First, competition for global dominance had shifted from the military to the economic. Second, there was a trend toward uniting the world under initiatives like China’s New Silk Road (officially the Belt and Road Initiative, or BRI) and American-led global financial structures. And third, the future of life as we know it depends on ending EHM strategies everywhere and transforming a failing degenerative system, known as a death economy, into a regenerative one, known as a life economy.

      The failure of the world’s largest, best-equipped military to defeat North Vietnam, combined with the Cold War specter of a nuclear holocaust, replaced the pillar of instilling fear in others with the pillar of debt as the primary tactic.

      Nearly every top Ecuadorean official involved in the dam’s construction is either imprisoned or sentenced on bribery charges. . . . Then there is the price tag: around $19 billion in Chinese loans, not only for this dam, known as Coca Codo Sinclair but also for bridges, highways, irrigation, schools, health clinics and a half dozen other dams the government is scrambling to pay for. It doesn’t matter whether Ecuador can afford them. China gets paid either way. To settle the bill, China gets to keep 80 percent of Ecuador’s most valuable export—oil. . . . “China took advantage of Ecuador,” said Ecuador’s energy minister, Carlos Pérez. “The strategy of China is clear. They take economic control of countries.”4

      “Texaco pays for all that?” Ann asked. “Well, not exactly . . .” He reached across the table and patted her arm. “You do. Or your daddy does. The American taxpayer. The money flows through USAID, the World Bank, CIA, and the Pentagon, but everyone here”—he swept his arm toward the window and the city below—“knows it’s all about Texaco. Remember, countries like this have long histories of coups. If you take a good look, you’ll see that most of them happen when the leaders of the country don’t play our game.”1 “Are you saying Texaco overthrows governments?” I asked.

      He laughed. “Let’s just say that governments that don’t cooperate are seen as Soviet puppets. They threaten American interests and democracy. The CIA doesn’t like that.”

      My realization about enabling that community was a great lesson for me. I understood that the victims themselves could be unwitting collaborators and that taking action offered the only solution. And it worked.

      If an EHM is completely successful, the loans are so large that the debtor is forced to default on its payments after a few years. When this happens, we demand our pound of flesh. This often includes one or more of the following: control over United Nations votes, the installation of military bases, or access to precious resources such as oil. Of course, the debtor still owes us the money—and another country is added to our global empire.

      Claudine’s statement would be revised to “If you want your country to prosper, accept loans from the Washington Consensus, hire our companies to build infrastructure projects, and submit to neoliberal policies.”

      Several days later the popular Bandung politician, whose puppet stood up to Nixon and was impaled by Bucket Man, was struck and killed by a hit-and-run driver.

      “Do you know who owns United Fruit?” he asked. “Zapata Oil, George Bush’s company—our UN ambassador.” I said. “A man with ambitions.” He leaned forward and lowered his voice. “And now I’m up against his cronies at Bechtel.”

      The Depression resulted in the New Deal and in policies that promoted economic regulation, governmental financial manipulation, and the extensive application of fiscal policy.

      The 1960s was a pivotal decade in this period and in the shift from neoclassic to Keynesian economics. It happened under the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, and perhaps the most important single influence was one man, Robert McNamara.

      see now that Robert McNamara’s greatest and most sinister contributions to history were to jockey the World Bank into becoming an agent of global empire on a scale never before witnessed and to set a dangerous precedent. He advocated the idea that “If you want your country to prosper, accept loans from the World Bank, hire our companies to build infrastructure projects, and adhere to the conditions imposed by it and the IMF” and took it to new levels. His ability to bridge the gaps between the primary components of the corporatocracy would be fine-tuned by his successors.

      This happened during my time as an EHM and continues today. For instance, George Shultz was secretary of the treasury under Nixon, served as Bechtel president, and then became secretary of state under Reagan. Caspar Weinberger was a Bechtel vice president and general counsel, and later secretary of defense under

      Reagan. Richard Cheney served as secretary of defense under George H. W. Bush (himself a former oil man, US ambassador to the UN, and CIA director), as Halliburton president, and as US vice president to George W. Bush. Bill Clinton’s treasury secretary, Robert Rubin, had been co-chairman at Goldman Sachs. The list is overwhelming, continuing under Barack Obama, Donald Trump, and Joe Biden.

      In the eighteenth century, Mohammed ibn Saud, a local warlord, joined forces with fundamentalists from the ultraconservative Wahhabi sect. It was a powerful union, and during the next two hundred years the Saud family and their Wahhabi allies conquered most of the Arabian Peninsula, including Islam’s holiest sites, Mecca and Medina.

      United States–Saudi Arabian Joint Economic Commission. Known as JECOR, it embodied an innovative concept that was the opposite of traditional foreign aid programs: it relied on Saudi money to hire American firms to build up Saudi Arabia.

      The condition was that Saudi Arabia would use its petrodollars to purchase US government securities; in turn, the interest earned by these securities would be spent by the US Department of the Treasury in ways that enabled Saudi Arabia to emerge from an outmoded society into the modern, industrialized world. In other words, the interest compounding on billions of dollars of the kingdom’s oil income would be used to pay US companies to fulfill the vision I (and presumably some of my competitors) had come up with, to convert Saudi Arabia into a modern industrial power. Our own Department of the Treasury would hire us, at Saudi expense, to build infrastructure projects and even entire cities throughout the Arabian Peninsula.

      The evidence was indisputable: Saudi Arabia, America’s longtime ally and the world’s largest oil producer, had somehow become, as a senior Treasury Department official put it, “the epicenter” of terrorist financing. . . . Starting in the late 1980s—after the dual shocks of the Iranian revolution and the Soviet war in Afghanistan—Saudi Arabia’s quasi-official charities became the primary source of funds for the fast-growing jihad movement. In some 20 countries the money was used to run paramilitary training camps, purchase weapons, and recruit new members. . . .

      Saudi largess encouraged U.S. officials to look the other way, some veteran intelligence officers say. Billions of dollars in contracts, grants, and salaries have gone to a broad range of former U.S. officials who had dealt with the Saudis: ambassadors, CIA station chiefs, even cabinet secretaries. . . . Electronic intercepts of conversations implicated members of the royal family in backing not only Al Qaeda but also other terrorist groups.

      I brought a young MIT mathematician, Dr. Nadipuram Prasad, into my department and gave him a budget. Within six months he developed the Markov method for econometric modeling. Together we hammered out a series of technical papers that presented Markov as a revolutionary method for forecasting the impact of infrastructure investment on economic development. It was exactly what we wanted: a tool that scientifically “proved” we were doing countries a favor by helping them incur debts they would never be able to pay off. In addition, only a highly skilled econometrician with lots of time and money could possibly comprehend the intricacies of Markov or question its conclusions. The papers were published by several prestigious organizations, and we formally presented them at conferences and universities in a number of countries. The papers—and we—became famous throughout the industry.2

      “We—my people—are part of the desert. The people the shah claims to rule with that iron hand of his are not just of the desert. We are the desert.”

      “Quite simple. He is your only real ally in the Middle East, and the industrial world rotates on the axle of oil that is the Middle East. Oh, you have Israel, of course, but that’s actually a liability to you, not an asset. And no oil there. Your politicians must placate the Jewish vote, must get their money to finance campaigns. So, you’re stuck with Israel, I’m afraid. However, Iran is the key. Your oil companies need us. You need our shah—or you think you do, just as you thought you needed South Vietnam’s corrupt leaders.” “Is Iran the equivalent of Vietnam?”

      I had no answer. The relief turned into defensiveness. I stammered out the standard justifications: that I was trying to do good, that I was exploring ways to change the system from within, and—the old standby—that if I quit, someone even worse would fill my shoes. But I could see from the way she watched me that she was not buying it. Even worse, I knew that I was not buying it either. She had forced me to understand the essential truth: it was not my job, but me, that was to blame.

