#### Eye of the Chickenhawk (Dovey, Simon)
      One last note. Pedophilia was often conflated with homosexuality by news and law enforcement agencies in the 1970s and 1980s. Many of the sources used, such as police reports and newspaper articles, characterise crimes such as the rape, torture, and murder of children as homosexual ones. The men involved in such crimes, in many instances, did not have sex with other men at the peer level. Some were married to women. The homophobic slant given in police reports and news articles at the time these crimes were committed does not preclude these as evidence of the crimes themselves. They are the only pieces of evidence we have.
      The timing and discovery of ‘kill’ photographs in Dallas may raise an eyebrow, but what happened to the Odyssey Network client cards raises both. These would be handed over to Henry Kissinger's State Department and subsequently destroyed.
      From inside Cook County jail Norman was inexplicably granted access to the publishing, printing, and mailing facilities required to produce and distribute literature for his Odyssey Network under its new name The Delta Project.
      Then in May 1977 a judge inexplicably ordered Norman’s early release and he moved with Phillip Paske into a basement apartment on W. Wrightwood Av in Chicago,69 just a short twenty-minute drive from where soon, the bodies of twenty-nine teenaged boys would be exhumed from the crawlspace of John Wayne Gacy. Norman and Paske set the apartment
      After John Norman went back to prison in June 1978, Phillip Paske lost his job as a children’s supervisor at a public swimming pool,72 and as records show, went on to work at John Wayne Gacy’s construction company, Painting Decorating Maintenance(PDM).
      Gacy named the pair of teenagers who lived with him, David Cram and Michael Rossi, but now he named a third, Phillip Paske, and by extension a fourth, John David Norman.
      Aside from carrying advertisements for Norman’s trafficking network, Hermes also published advertisements for clandestine groups providing support and instructions on how to infiltrate community groups, such as the boy scouts, big brother programs, or church affiliated youth groups, including guides on how to groom children.110
      The New Orleans detectives who investigated Robert Lang later said in interviews with a documentary maker covering the case, they believed Lang had been an intelligence asset on account of evidence they discovered indicating he served in all four branches of the United States Military.
      The investigation into these two murders is convoluted and further obfuscated by limited public disclosure of original case files, which are heavily redacted and riddled with what appear to be anecdotal red herrings. So to put the case simply for clarity’s sake before we enter into it. The murder of Mark Stebbins can reasonably be attributed in some way to a pedophile named Christopher Busch, who was the son of a General Motors executive seemingly involved with a pedophile ring made up of executives at the company. The murder of Timothy King can reasonably be attributed to members of a child pornography ring located in the Cass Corridor region of Detroit, likely financed by Francis Shelden.
      “It seems there may very well be a national conspiracy made up of an inter-relating network of foster homes, churches, nature camps and other similar programs ostensibly set up to handle wayward, incorrigible, homeless youngsters. . . These adult perverts appear to be aware of the network and travel between states attending these camps and sexually abusing these children for money usually paid to the camp officials. Many of these people involved in this type of activity are very wealthy individuals and some are respectable community leaders in their home towns.”218 — Letter from Robert F. Leonard Prosecuting Attorney, Genesee County, to Benjamin Civiletti, Assistant U.S. Attorney General, March 4, 1977.
      In November 1934 a Major General named Smedley Butler informed Congress he’d been approached by a director from the Guaranty Trust Company named Grayson Murphy, to lead a paramilitary group formed from US military veterans as the means for backing a plot to install Hugh S. Johnson, at that time the head of the National Recovery Administration, as dictator of the United States. The plot was financed by the Guaranty Trust Company, a J.P Morgan financial firm backed by City of London financiers, with armaments for the prospective paramilitary units raised to be supplied by the DuPont family firearms subsidiary Remington Arms Co.265 The plan was to relegate the Presidency to the purely ceremonial role played in 2023 by President Joe Biden. Who himself having been a Senator from Delaware, has the DuPont family to thank for his political career. Biden's first senatorial campaign was fully funded and staffed by DuPont employees in the early 70s.
      His victory party was held and celebrated in a DuPont ballroom, and soon after his family moved into an old DuPont family mansion. As Biden put it himself in the 1980s, he prostituted himself to these people.267 And when a member of the DuPont family raped his 3 year-old daughter, Joe Biden’s son Beau as district attorney decided not to prosecute the case.268
      Brongersma was a prominent advocate for the legalisation of pedophilia in the Netherlands
      From Amsterdam through the late 1970s, 80s, and early 90s, Stamford operated a child sex tourism business under the guise of an international homosexual travel guide, which also sponsored boy brothels around under the franchise Club Spartacus.
      A detective from the juvenile division who inspected Osborne’s files commented there’d been enough evidence, “to bring down the [then Queensland] government overnight.”283
      Following the media reports of this in 2016, a former Queensland Premier named Mike Ahern accused a senior police official of having covered up the Osborne investigation, and referred the case to a royal commission being held into historic institutional child abuse in Australia at the time. The commission rejected former Premier’s request, so he put it bluntly to the press, should there be any doubt as to what would’ve been found. "FORMER premier Mike Ahern believes further investigation is needed into an organised gang that operated in the ’70s and ’80s. The gang, he said, was led by Clarence Howard-Osborne, who worked at Parliament House as a part-time Hansard reporter while Mr Ahern was in Parliament. It delivered hundreds of schoolboys, some as young as eight, in black Humbers to predators around Brisbane during those decades. He said it was a blot on the state’s history and wanted to know why the case was suddenly closed after Howard-Osborne killed himself. He is unhappy a royal commission into institutional child sex abuse rebuffed his submission to include the case in its inquiry. ‘Pedophilia was part of the overall corruption of society at the time,’ he said."
      Kasir had shown him a photograph, “of a former Tory Cabinet minister in a sauna with naked boys,” and that, “a bishop, a high court judge, social services director and top businessman were also among those captured on video at the hotel.”298 The alleged cabinet minister in question turned out to be Leon Brittan, the Secretary of the Home Office who Geoffrey Dickens handed his VIP pedophile dossier to in 1983. “Fay, now 69, claimed on oath that Brittan had been involved in abuse and that in March 1990 he had seen a photograph of the former Tory politician in a French maid’s uniform, with a young boy.”299 Another parliamentary minister named during the inquiry was Cyril Smith, who would be posthumously exposed as a serial violent sexual abuser of boys in 2013,300 confirmed to have been a frequent visitor to the Elm Guest House.301 Following this inquiry, in 1992 a social services director named Peter Righton, the top UK government adviser on child protection services,
      “I was contacted by a young man who seemed to be in his 20s. He told me he believed Vishal may have been taken by paedophiles in the Elm Guest House near Barnes Common. He said there were very highly placed people there. He talked about judges and politicians who were abusing little boys.”308
      In 1986 Dutroux had been charged with the kidnap, torture, and rape of five girls between the ages of 11-19 for which he’d been sentenced to 13 and half years.447 However, in 1992 he’d been granted an early release by a justice minister named Melchior Wathelet, who was soon after appointed to the European Court of Justice.448
      On August 22, while under surveillance, Dutroux had then kidnapped two more girls and taken them to the house. These were 17-year-old An Marcha and 19-year-old Eefje Lambrecks. Two friends who disappeared after being hypnotised on stage at a casino during the performance of a magician named Rasti Rostelli.
      Much of what the X-Dossier contains is hard to believe. It describes allegations of extreme acts of sexual violence against children, and I do mean extreme, committed by some of the most high profile individuals in Belgium at the time. Politicians. Magistrates. Royalty.
      From the moment one has had sex with a child, one is chained, unless all parties involved keep their mouth shut. And then, nothing tastes sweeter than a child, I once heard from one of the abusers. Contracts between business and the political world, contracts among business people, cheating with subsidies or permits, the establishing of fake companies, criminal contracts, and illegal arms trade, nothing was impossible. And it always ended with sex and children.
      This is because a note found in a cabin belonging to Weinstein was used as the basis for a police raid on the Abrasax Institute,530 an organisation involved in, “the study and experimental research of human psychological and psychotronic faculties, as well as the development of alternative techniques in psychotherapy”…among other things.531 The cult name ‘Anubis’ used by institute’s leader, a man named Francis Desmedt, was found signed on the note addressed to Bernard Weinstein, which read: “Bernard, don't forget that the feast is nearing and that the high priestess expects her present, Anubis.”
      There is some evidence to support the notion of a police conspiracy against the accused, which isn’t to say they were innocent. Police frame people for crimes they are guilty of all the time.
      In my opinion it’s probable the X-Dossier investigators may have forced some things to get results. Though I personally believe the overall ‘thesis’ of their investigation is truthful. That is — that Marc Dutroux was linked to a powerful network of people, powerful enough to have the team put together to investigate them charged for fabricating evidence:
      But what if hypnosis had failed to produce in children what it was known trauma could. Would the behaviorists stop for ethical reasons? There is one theory. That when MKUltra ended in 1973 this line of inquiry had been continued off the books. Elements within the CIA turned from academics to ‘alternative lifestyle’ communities, pedophile rings and cults, as conduits to carry out trauma-based mind control research. And we do find overlap between all these things in a 1987 case called The Finders.
