#### Heidegger, Neoplatonism, and the History of Being (Filler, James)
      The first follows the path of Aristotle by whom Being is seen as independent and separate and through whom the ontology of substance develops.
      Aristotle himself recognizes, it is when one is free from the necessities of life that a philosophical mode of thinking can arise.
      the relationship arises from the combination of the two entities, but does not exist independently of the entities, then something must be added to the entities which does not exist in either entity by itself. Otherwise, all that is necessary for a relationship to arise resides in each entity independently, and this is no different than if the relation derives from the single entity by itself. Thus, relation must exist independently of relata for there to be any relation at all.25
      So true multiplicity only arises in the relation between two things, and thus, it is ultimately the case that to exist independently is to not exist at all.
      This entails that the ground of being, being as determinate being, must be pure relation, a relation independent of its relata.
      Pure Relation, in its perfection, consists of three elements: Relationality Itself and two purely relational Relata. This,
      we will ultimately see, however, the situation is more complex. Pure Relationality must be indefinitely/indeterminately definite/indeterminate and definitely/determinately indefinite/indeterminate. It must be indeterminate/indefinite to the degree that it contains determinacy/definiteness within it. If it were simply indefinite/indeterminate, then it would be definite/determinate in being other than definiteness.
      The harmonization of these two philosophers further appears in that for Plato the sensible world of appearances mirrors the Heraclitean flux and the realm of Ideas/Forms mirrors the eternal and unchanging aspects of Parmenides’ Being.
      Plato’s ontology can be divided into three levels: the level of particulars (the level of appearances), the level of the Forms (the level of Being), and the level of the Good (a level “beyond Being”).
      Three ontological principles have been noted: The Unlimited, Limit, and The Cause/Demiurge. The Unlimited is characterized by More and Less, or as Aristotle notes the Great and Small, the Indefinite Dyad. Limit is more complex and its character is revealed, as Plato asserts, in the examination of the character of the Mixture, the fourth Kind.
      the Good with three aspects which are to be taken together as a unity: beauty, proportion/measure, and truth.73
      Hence, the Receptacle is the Unlimited/Indefinite Dyad, functioning as Matter to particulars in the realm of the phenomena, and the Unlimited functions as the Matter of the Forms on the higher realm, the realm in which the Demiurge generates the Forms. As Demos notes, “the forms get embodiment in the Receptacle.”
      The One imposes upon the Unlimited to generate Forms, and then in turn, the Forms are imposed upon the Receptacle to generate the particulars.
      Thus, relationality, as the relation of the One/Good/Limit and Indefinite Dyad/Unlimited, forms the basis of Plato’s ontology on all levels of being.
      See Physics, II.8.198b17–198b33. “A difficulty presents itself: why should not nature work, not for the sake of something, nor because it is better so, but just as the sky rains, not in order to make the corn grow, but of necessity [ἐξ ἀνάγκης]? (What is drawn up must cool, and what has been cooled must become water and descend, the result of this being that the corn grows.) Similarly if a man’s crop is spoiled on the threshing-floor, the rain did not fall for the sake of this—in order that the crop might be spoiled—but that result just followed. Why then should it not be the same with the parts in nature, e.g., that our teeth should come up of necessity—the front teeth sharp, fitted for tearing, the molars broad and useful for grinding down the food—since they did not arise for this end, but it was merely a coincident result; and so with all other parts in which we suppose that there is purpose? Wherever then all the parts came about just what they would have been if they had come to be for an end, such things survived, being organized spontaneously in a fitting way; whereas those which grew otherwise perished and continue to perish, as Empedocles says his ‘man-faced oxprogeny’ did.” (Aristotle, The Complete Works of Aristotle, 1, 339.)
      Plotinus’ One, as he clearly states, is not simply one, and he even states that it is inappropriate to call it “one”. Ultimately, Plotinus’ One is best understood as Pure Relation.
      “The One”; rather it is a significant metaphysical claim. Since unity entails determination, that is, Being, which also entails multiplicity, the First Principle ultimately cannot be one.
      “The turning back of the One to itself” can only take place in the act of its emanation into multiplicity and in this multiplicity’s reflection. Hence, Intellect would be the self-reflection of the One in multiplicity, which is self-constituted through this self-reflection: the reflection of the One in the Other. (emphasis in original)23
      The One is the principle of Being and unity, and in the same way Relation is the principle of Being and unity.
      Thus, it is the inherent relationality of the One which relates Intellect and the One and which becomes the actuality of Intellect. In this way, the Indeterminate Dyad both is and is not the One, and is and is not Intellect.
