#### Nietzsche (Princeton Classics) (Kaufmann, Walter A.)
      His father christened him Friedrich Wilhelm after King Friedrich Wilhelm IV of Prussia, on whose birthday he was born. The king became mad a few years later, and so did Nietzsche’s father. Nietzsche later shed his middle name, along with his family’s patriotism and religion, but in January 1889 he, too, became insane.
      Every true faith is infallible inasmuch as it accomplishes what the person who has the faith hopes to find in it; but faith does not offer the least support for a proof of objective truth. Here the ways of men part: if you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth [ein Jünger der Wahrheit], then inquire.
      All things considered, I could not have endured my youth without Wagner’s music. For I was condemned to Germans. If one wants to rid oneself of an unbearable pressure, one needs hashish. Well then, I needed Wagner. Wagner is the antitoxin against everything German par excellence—a toxin, a poison, that I don’t deny. From the moment when there was a piano score of Tristan—my compliments, Herr von Bülow—I was a Wagnerian8a … older works I deemed beneath myself—still too vulgar, too “German.”
      I have somehow something like “influence.” … In the Anti-Semitic Correspondence (which is sent out only “to reliable Parteigenossen”) my name is mentioned almost in every issue. Zarathustra, “the divine man,” has charmed the anti-Semites; there is a special anti-Semitic interpretation of it which made me laugh very much [#460; cf. letter #271 to Overbeck].
      This, as it seems to me, reasonable insight into the situation I have reached after taking an immense dose of opium—from despair. But instead of thus losing my reason, I seem to have found it at long last.
      The will to a system: in a philosopher, morally speaking, a subtle corruption, a disease of the character; amorally speaking, his will to appear more stupid than he is. … I am not bigoted enough for a system—and not even for my system [XIV, 313]. What Nietzsche objects to is the failure to question one’s own assumptions.
      Thus Nietzsche is, like Plato, not a system-thinker but a problem-thinker.
      One may here recall Kierkegaard’s comment on Hegel: “If Hegel had written the whole of his Logic and then said … that it was merely an experiment in thought … then he would certainly have been the greatest thinker who had ever lived. As it is, he is merely comic.” (Journals, ed. Alexander Dru, 134.)
      For I treat deep problems as I would a cold swim—quickly into them and quickly out again. That in this way one does not get … deep enough down, that is the superstition … of the enemies of the cold water; they speak without experience [FW 381; cf. FW 322].
      Questions permitting of experiment are, to Nietzsche’s mind, those questions to which he can reply: “Versuchen wir’s!” Let us try it! Experimenting involves testing an answer by trying to live according to it.
      Nietzsche prophetically envisages himself as a madman: to have lost God means madness; and when mankind will discover that it has lost God, universal madness will break out. This apocalyptic sense of dreadful things to come hangs over Nietzsche’s thinking like a thundercloud.
      It is a matter of course with me, from instinct. I am too inquisitive, too questionable, too exuberant to stand for any gross answer. God is a gross answer, an indelicacy against us thinkers—at bottom merely a gross prohibition for us: you shall not think! [EH II 1; cf. GM III 27].
      “What differentiates us is not that we find no God—neither in history, nor in nature, nor behind nature—but that we do not feel that what has been revered as God is ‘godlike’ ” (A 47).
      To escape nihilism—which seems involved both in asserting the existence of God and thus robbing this world of ultimate significance, and also in denying God and thus robbing everything of meaning and value—that is Nietzsche’s greatest and most persistent problem.
      That one must occasionally be hard against others for the sake of the perfection of one’s own soul—though not as hard as one must be against oneself—that is a truth which was not discovered by Nietzsche.
      The revaluation is thus the alleged discovery that our morality is, by its own standards, poisonously immoral: that Christian love is the mimicry of impotent hatred; that most unselfishness is but a particularly vicious form of selfishness; and that ressentiment is at the core of our morals.
      When he had said that, his disciple shouted …: “But I believe in your cause and consider it so strong that I shall say everything, everything that I can find in my heart to say against it.” The innovator laughed …: “This kind of discipleship,” he said then, “is the best …” [FW 106].
      Go away from me and resist Zarathustra. … Perhaps he deceived you. … One repays a teacher badly, if one always remains a pupil only. Why do you not pluck at my wreath?
      The crown of Nietzsche’s philosophy is the dual vision of the overman and the eternal recurrence; its key conception is the will to power.
      The end of the moral interpretation of the world, which no longer has any sanction after it has tried to escape into some beyond, leads to nihilism. “Everything lacks meaning.” … Since Copernicus man has been rolling from the center toward “x.” … What does nihilism mean? That the highest values devaluate themselves. The goal is lacking; the answer is lacking to our “Why?” [WM 1–2]. Modern man finds that his values are worthless, that his ends do not give his life any purpose, and that his pleasures do not give him happiness.
      We are not presented with an elaborate theory of aesthetic value, but we find that the creation of beauty is envisaged as the response of a fundamentally healthy organism to the challenge of disease.
      Nietzsche’s last book, in a passage which represents an important clue to his other polemics as well: My practice of war can be summed up in four propositions. First: I only attack causes that are victorious; I may even wait until they become victorious. Second: I only attack causes against which I would not find allies, so that I stand alone—so that I compromise myself alone.—I have never taken a step publicly that did not compromise me: that is my criterion of doing right. Third: I never attack persons; I merely avail myself of the person as of a strong magnifying glass that allows one to make visible a general but creeping and elusive calamity. Thus I attacked David Strauss—more precisely, the success of a senile book with the “cultured” people in Germany: I caught this culture in the act. Thus I attacked Wagner—more precisely, the falseness, the half-couth instincts of our “culture” which mistakes the subtle for the rich, and the late for the great. Fourth: I only attack things when every personal quarrel is excluded, when any background of bad experiences is lacking. On the contrary, attack is in my case a proof of good will, sometimes even of gratitude [EH I 7].
      He maintains in effect that the gulf separating Plato from the average man is greater than the cleft between the average man and a chimpanzee.
      Most men are essentially animals, not basically different from chimpanzees—distinguished only by a potentiality that few of them realize: they can, but rarely do, rise above the beasts.
      Culture consists in the overcoming of any discrepancy between inside and outside, and the uncultured man is not really embodied in his acts, thoughts, and desires. A cleft remains in him between appearance and reality, between his nature and his true nature.
      proper destiny. Man’s task is simple: he should cease letting his “existence” be “a thoughtless accident” (1). Not only the use of the word Existenz, but the thought
      Yet Nietzsche also says in Ecce Homo: “To become what one is, one must not have the faintest notion what one is”
      “Between a clever chimpanzee and Edison, if he is considered as a technician only, there exists merely a—certainly very great—difference in degree.”2 In terms of human worth or dignity, however, this difference in degree is nil, if it is understood that human worth and dignity depend essentially on a cardinal difference between man and the animals. What is required is a goal that only man can reach.
      Nietzsche objects to the State because it appears to him as the power that intimidates man into conformity. Christianity, as he sees it, was originally a call to man not to conform, to leave father and mother, and to perfect himself.
      If the doctrines of sovereign Becoming, of the fluidity of all … species, of the lack of any cardinal distinction between man and animal—doctrines I consider true but deadly—are hurled into the people for another generation … then nobody should be surprised when … brotherhoods with the aim of robbery and exploitation of the non-brothers … will appear on the arena of the future [U II 9].
      Men, as Nietzsche saw them, were not naturally equal, did not naturally love one another, and were not naturally free.
      This is the basic idea of culture insofar as it assigns only one task to every single one of us: to promote inside and outside of ourselves the generation of the philosopher, the artist, and the saint, and thus to work at the perfection of nature [5].
      Nietzsche’s doctrine is dangerous insofar as he affirms that the difference between man and man is more significant than that between man and animal.
      as man even now infers in dreams, mankind inferred for many thousands of years also when awake; the first cause that occurred to the mind to explain anything that required explanation sufficed and was considered the truth. … Dreams take us back again to distant conditions of human culture and put a means at our disposal for understanding them better [MA I 13].
      A brief explanation may clarify Nietzsche’s point. Somebody does something for me. There is an implication that I was powerless and needed his help. I am degraded in his eyes and in my own. Then I thank him, and the implication is reversed: he has done something for me, as if I were the powerful one and he my servant. In that sense, gratitude may be considered a mild form of revenge. More important: Nietzsche has explained a moral valuation as prompted by the will to power.
      “that at least they still have one power, in spite of all their weakness, the power to hurt” (MA I 50).
      “One strives for independence (freedom) for the sake of power, not the other way around” (IX, 398).
      A table of virtues hangs over every people. Behold, it is the table of its overcomings; behold, it is the voice of its will to power. Praiseworthy is whatever seems difficult to a people; whatever seems indispensable and difficult is called good; and … the rarest, the most difficult—that they call holy.10
      Nietzsche’s characteristic declarations about the will to power. “Philosophy is this tyrannic urge itself, the most spiritual will to power” (J 9).
      Nietzsche, coming after Darwin, felt impelled “to substitute for the Kantian question: ‘how are synthetic judgments a priori possible?’ another question: ‘Why is the belief in such judgments necessary?’ ” And
      “Only where there is life, there is also will: not will to life but … will to power. There is much that life esteems more highly than life itself; but out of the esteeming itself speaks the will to power.” Thus life taught me. …
      Nietzsche himself remarked that his Zarathustra proclaimed a view that was the opposite of the real Zarathustra’s. Nietzsche added that he chose Zarathustra as his protagonist because he was the first one to commit “the error”: therefore, he had to be the first one to repudiate it. (EH IV 3) It seems to have gone unnoticed, however, how close Nietzsche himself had come to the real Zarathustra’s view.
      Who overcomes himself, his freedom finds. —GOETHE, The Mysteries
      Morality always consists in not yielding to impulses: moral codes are systems of injunctions against submission to various impulses, and positive moral commandments always enjoin a victory over animal instincts. Expediency, on the other hand, is no more than an important characteristic of some moral codes, conceivably of the best—but not, like self-overcoming, the very essence of morality itself.
      In 1872 Nietzsche had penned the sentence: “Those of his [man’s] abilities which are awesome and considered inhuman are perhaps the fertile soil out of which alone all humanity … can grow”
      There is a long aphorism in the Dawn, entitled Selbst-Beherrschung und Mässigung ihr letztes Motiv, “self-mastery and moderation as its ultimate motive”—though Mässigung would be best translated by a Greek word: Plato’s sophrosyne.
      our inability to do evil. Perhaps we are just weak. To be moral is to overcome one’s impulse; if one does not have any impulses, one is not therefore moral.
      Nietzsche believed that a man without impulses could not do the good or create the beautiful any more than a castrated man could beget children. A man with strong impulses might be evil because he had not yet learned to sublimate his impulses, but if he should ever acquire self-control, he might achieve greatness.
      “The spiritualization of sensuality is called love: it is a great triumph over Christianity” (G V 3).
      Nietzsche’s “sublimieren” has imposed no similar hardship on his translators, who could use the English “sublimating,” which goes back to the same Latin root. The Latin word in question, sublimare, however, means—in German—aufheben, and Nietzsche’s sublimation actually involves, no less than does Hegel’s aufheben, a simultaneous preserving, canceling, and lifting up.
      In overcoming or sublimating itself, it appears in a strange dual capacity. It is both that which overcomes (e.g., reason) and that which is overcome (e.g., impulse). In Aristotelian terms, it is both matter and form; in Hegel’s, it is both “substance” and “subject.”8
      contradict as has never been contradicted before and am nevertheless the opposite of a no-saying spirit” (EH IV 1).
      Every smallest step in the field of free thinking, and of the personally formed life, has ever been fought for at the cost of spiritual and physical tortures … change has required its innumerable martyrs. … Nothing has been bought more dearly than that little bit of human reason and sense of freedom that is now the basis of our pride [M 18].
      Why stroke the hypersensitive ears of our modern weaklings? Why yield even a single step … to the Tartuffery of words? For us psychologists this would involve a Tartuffery of action. … For a psychologist today shows his good taste (others may say his integrity) in this, if in anything, that he resists the shamefully moralized manner of speaking which makes all modern judgments about men and things slimy [GM III 19].
      The Will to Power. A book for thinking, nothing else: it belongs to those to whom thinking is a delight, nothing else. That it is written in German is untimely, to say the least: I wish I had written it in French so that it might not appear as a confirmation of any reichsdeutschen aspirations [XIV, 373 f.].
      And life itself confided this secret to me: “Behold,” it said, “I am that which must always overcome itself. Indeed, you call it a will to procreate or a drive to an end, to something higher, farther, more manifold: but all this is one. … Rather would I perish than forswear this; and verily, where there is perishing … there life sacrifices itself—for [more] power. … Whatever I create and however much I love it—soon I must oppose it and my love; … ‘will to existence’: that will does not exist. … not will to life but … will to power. There is much that life esteems more highly than life itself” [Z II 12].
      All that is living is obeying … he who cannot obey himself is commanded … commanding is harder than obeying … Even when it [the living] commands itself: it must pay for its commanding. It must become the judge, the avenger, and the victim of its own law. … What persuades the living that it obeys, commands, and exercises obedience even when it commands [itself]? … the will to power.
      Jesus said to his Jews: “the law was for servants. … What are morals to us sons of God!” [J 164].
      “Giving style” to one’s character—a great and rare art! It is exercised by those who see all the strengths and weaknesses of their own nature and then comprehend them in an artistic plan until everything appears as art and reason. … It will be the strong and domineering natures who enjoy their finest gaiety in such compulsion, in such constraint and perfection under a law of their own.
      Those who restrain desire, do so because theirs is weak enough to be restrained. … He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence. … Joys impregnate, Sorrows bring forth. … Joys laugh not! Sorrows weep not! … Exuberance is beauty. … These two classes of men are always upon earth, and they should be enemies: whoever tries to reconcile them seeks to destroy existence. Religion is an endeavor to reconcile the two. Note: Jesus Christ did not wish to unite, but to separate them … and he says: “I came not to send Peace, but a Sword.” … Opposition is true Friendship. … One Law for the Lion and Ox is Oppression. —WILLIAM BLAKE, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
      Nietzsche differs with Christianity in his naturalistic denial of the breach between flesh and spirit, in his claim that self-sacrifice is the very essence of life, and in his paradoxical assertion—so well illustrated by his previously considered polemics against the Stoics—that man’s attempts to sublimate his animal nature exemplify the very way of nature.
      If happiness is defined as the state of being man desires; if joy is defined as the conscious aspect of this state; and if pleasure is defined as a sensation marked by the absence of pain and discomfort; then Nietzsche’s position can be summarized quite briefly: happiness is the fusion of power and joy—and joy contains not only ingredients of pleasure but also a component of pain.
      Worldly power may thus cloak the most abysmal weakness; value cannot be measured in terms of “success,” and it is precisely the dictator who is apt to be the slave of his passions.
      good man is for Nietzsche the passionate man who is the master of his passions.
      Among philosophers it was, above all others, Socrates who was the perfect master of his passions—
      The Dionysian man is thus one who gives style to his own character
      My formula for the greatness of a human being is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different—not forward, not backward, not in all eternity. Not merely bear what is necessary, still less conceal it … but love it [EH II 10].
      The Poles I considered the most gifted and gallant among the Slavic people; and the giftedness of the Slavs seemed greater to me than that of the Germans—yes, I thought that the Germans had entered the line of gifted nations only through a strong mixture with Slavic blood [XI, 300].
      Unpleasant, even dangerous, qualities can be found in every nation and every individual: it is cruel to demand that the Jew should be an exception. These qualities may even be dangerous and revolting in him to an unusual degree; and perhaps the young stock-exchange Jew is the most disgusting invention of mankind. In spite of that, I should like to know how much one must forgive a people in a total accounting, when they have had the most painful history of all peoples, not without the fault of all of us, and when one owes to them the noblest man (Christ), the purest sage (Spinoza), the most powerful book, and the most effective moral law of the world. Moreover, in the darkest times of the Middle Ages, … Jewish free-thinkers, scholars, and physicians … clung to the banner of enlightenment and spiritual independence. … We owe it to their exertions, not least of all, … that the bond of culture which now links us with the enlightenment of Greco-Roman antiquity remained unbroken [MA I 475].
      Yet historically it has been Nietzsche’s fate that his insistence that man’s spiritual life cannot be understood completely apart from his body has been emphasized out of all proportion and thoroughly misunderstood because his concomitant insistence that man’s physical life cannot be understood apart from the spirit was ignored.
      Culture and State—one should not deceive oneself about this—are antagonists: ‘Kultur-Staat’ is merely a modern idea. One lives off the other, one thrives at the expense of the other. All great ages of culture are ages of political decline: what is great culturally has always been unpolitical, even anti-political. Goethe’s heart opened up at the phenomenon of Napoleon—it closed up at the “Wars of Liberation.” At the same moment when Germany comes up as a great power, France gains a new importance as a cultural power [G VIII 4].
      There are two kinds of genius: one that above all begets and wants to beget, and another that likes to be fertilized and to give birth. And just so there are among people of genius those to whom has fallen the woman’s problem of pregnancy and the secret task of giving form, maturing, and perfecting—the Greeks, for example, were a people of this kind, and also the French—and others who must fertilize and become the cause of new orders of life—like the Jews, the Romans and, asked in all modesty, the Germans? [J 248].
      The unphilosophic and inartistic mass remain animalic, while the man who overcomes himself, sublimating his impulses, consecrating his passions, and giving style to his character, becomes truly human or—as Zarathustra would say, enraptured by the word über—superhuman.
      Mankind does not represent a development toward something better or stronger or higher in the sense accepted today. “Progress” is merely a modern idea, that is, a false idea. The European today is vastly inferior in value to the European of the Renaissance: further development is altogether not according to any necessity in the direction of elevation. … In another sense, success in individual cases is constantly encountered in the most widely different places and cultures: here we really do find a higher type that is, in relation to mankind as a whole, a kind of overman. Such fortunate accidents of great success have always been possible and will perhaps always be possible [A 3, 4].
      In all the more profound and comprehensive human beings of this century, the total tendency underlying the enigmatic workings of their soul was, at bottom, to prepare the way for this new synthesis and to anticipate, experimentally, the European of the future. Only in their foregrounds or in weaker hours, as in old age, they belonged to the “fatherlandish” ones—they were merely taking a rest from themselves when they became “patriots.” I am thinking of human beings like Napoleon, Goethe, Beethoven, Stendhal, Heinrich Heine, and Schopenhauer [J 256; XVI, 375].
      The Will to Power one finds this explanatory statement about Napoleon: “he himself, however, had been corrupted by the means he had to employ, and had lost the nobility of his character” (WM 1026). Caesar came closer to Nietzsche’s ideal—
      You higher men, do learn this, joy wants eternity. Joy wants the eternity of all things, wants deep, wants deep eternity! [Z IV 19].
      What, if some day or night, a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: “This life, as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and sigh … must return to you—all in the same succession and sequence—even this spider and this moonlight between the trees, and even this moment and I myself. The eternal hourglass of existence is turned over again and again—and you with it, speck of dust!” Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: “You are a god, and never have I heard anything more divine!” If this thought were to gain possession of you, it would change you as you are, or perhaps crush you. The question in each and everything, “do you want this once more and innumerable times more?” would lie upon your actions as the greatest weight. Or how well disposed would you have to become to yourself and to life to crave nothing more fervently than this ultimate eternal confirmation and seal? [FW 341].
      Friendship. … In classical antiquity, friendship was experienced deeply and strongly. … In this consists their head-start before us: we, on the other side, have developed idealized love between the sexes. All the great virtues of the ancients were founded on this, that man stood next to man, and that no woman could claim to be the nearest, the highest, or … the only one whom he loved. … Perhaps, our trees do not grow so high because of the ivy and the vines [M 503].
      But if you have a suffering friend, be a resting place for his suffering, but a hard bed, as it were …: thus will you profit him best. And if a friend wrongs you, then say: “I forgive you what you did to me; but that you have done it to yourself—how could I forgive that.” Thus speaks all great love: it overcomes even forgiveness and pity … all great love is even beyond all pity: for it still wants to—create the beloved. “Myself I sacrifice to my love, and my neighbor as myself”—thus runs the speech of all creators. But all creators are hard [Z II 3; cf. M 46]. The best that a friend can do for a friend is to help him to gain self-mastery.
      How is it possible to stay on one’s own path? Always someone crying calls us aside; our eye rarely sees a case where it does not become necessary to leave our own task immediately. … There is even a secret seduction in all this …: just our “own path” is too hard … and too far from the love and gratitude of others … we do not at all mind escaping it [FW 338].
      In man creator and creature are united. … And … your pity is for the “creature in man,” for that which must be formed, broken, forged, torn, burned, … and purged—for that which necessarily must and shall suffer. And our pity—do you not grasp for whom our converse pity is, when it protests against your pity as against the worst of all pamperings and weaknesses? Thus it is pity versus pity [J 225].
      When the exceptional human being treats the mediocre more tenderly than himself and his peers, this is not mere courtesy of the heart—it is simply his duty [A 57].17
      Of all evil I deem you capable: therefore I want the good from you. Verily, I have often laughed at the weaklings who thought themselves good because they had no claws [Z II 13].
      It is nobler to declare oneself wrong than to insist on being right—especially when one is right.
      For that man be delivered from revenge, that is for me the bridge to the highest hope, and a rainbow after long storms.
      Mistrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful. … Mistrust all who talk much of their justice! Verily, their souls lack more than honey.
      I estimate the value of human beings, of races, according to the necessity by which they cannot conceive the god apart from the satyr.
      Hatred against mediocrity is unworthy of a philosopher: it is almost a question mark concerning his “right to philosophy.” Just because he is the exception, he must protect the norm and encourage self-confidence in all the mediocre [hat er die Regel in Schutz zu nehmen, hat er allem Mittleren den guten Mut zu sich selber zu erhalten] [WM 893; cf. A 57].
      What great philosopher hitherto has been married? Heraclitus, Plato, Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Kant, Schopenhauer—these were not. … A married philosopher belongs in comedy … and that exception … the sarcastic [boshaft] Socrates, it seems, married ironically just to demonstrate this proposition [III, 7]
      Stuart Mill in his essay On Liberty: “if there are any persons who contest a received opinion, … let us thank them for it, open our minds to listen to them, and rejoice that there is some one to do for us what we otherwise ought, if we have any regard for either the certainty or the vitality of our convictions, to do with much greater labor for ourselves.”
      Far from the market place and from fame happens all that is great: far from the market place and from fame, the inventors of new values have always dwelt [Z I 12].
      know that in the not distant future many Germans will feel as I do: the desire to live for one’s education free from politics, nationality, and newspapers. … There must yet be circles as the monastic orders were, only with broader contents. … Education through the State’s education is to be scorned [VII, 383 f.; cf. 355
      For here it is clearly superiority (in experience and taste and a few other things) that passes judgment, and if only he that is judged is no fool he will takes sides against himself with genuine pleasure.
      have given men the most profound book they own, my Zarathustra: a book that confers such distinction that whoever can say, “I have understood six sentences in it, that is, lived through them” thus belongs to a higher order of mortals.— But how one has to atone for that! pay for that! it almost corrupts/ one’s character! The gulf has become too great. Ever since, I really do nothing any more but buffooneries to remain master over an intolerable tension and vulnerability. This between us. The rest is silence. Your friend
