#### Some Assembly Required: Decoding Four Billion Years of Life, from Ancient Fossils to DNA (Shubin, Neil)
      If you think feathers arose to help animals fly, or lungs and legs to help animals walk on land, you’d be in good company. You’d also be entirely wrong.
      This subject is intimately connected with that of the gradation of the characters, often accompanied by a change of function.”
      Franz Nopcsa von Felsõ-Szilvás (1877–1933), known as Baron Nopcsa of Săcel, was a man of intense passions and great intellect. At eighteen, he discovered some bones on his family’s estate in Transylvania. After teaching himself anatomy, in 1897 he published a formal scientific description of them as a large dinosaur. Nopcsa went on to write a seven-hundred-page tome on the geology of Albania, as well as dozens of scientific papers in multiple languages. He served as a spy for Austria and worked to organize Albanians’ resistance to the Turks to gain their freedom. The baron’s real dream was to assume the throne of Albania. Sadly, his life ended when, after racking up large debts, he shot his lover, then turned the gun on himself.
      Like lungs and limbs in the water-to-land transition, the inventions used for flight preceded the origin of flight. Hollow bones, fast growth rates, high metabolisms, winglike arms, wrists with hinges, and, of course, feathers originally arose in dinosaurs that were living on the ground, running fast to capture prey. The major change is not the development of new organs per se but the repurposing of old features for new uses and functions.
      Massive change came about by repurposing ancient structures for new uses. Innovations have antecedents that extend deep in time. Nothing ever begins when you think it does.
      In case after case, evolutionary transformations are less about changes in the genes themselves than in when and where they are active in development.
      The science fiction flavor of the research only increased when the Dutch team took the human NOTCH2NL and inserted it into a mouse. They made a human-mouse chimera. The result was a mouse that grew more cortical brain cells, much like a human.
      This single insight was one of the great ideas in the history of genetics: the genome is not static—genes can jump from place to place.
      There is a war going on inside the genome, between jumping genes and the rest of our DNA. That tension between a selfish gene and the forces that strive to control it occurs in genomes every day. It turns out that DNA has hidden mechanisms to control jumping genes. One of them involves a small DNA sequence that functions like a hunter-killer, able to silence jumping genes by attaching to the part of the gene that makes it jump, then literally bundling it up in protein so it cannot jump around. Neutered in this way, the gene doesn’t jump; it stays put.
      At some point in the distant past, a virus invaded our ancestors’ genome. That virus contained a version of syncytin. Instead of commandeering our ancestors’ genome to make endless copies of itself, the virus became neutered, lost its ability to infect, and then was put to work by a new master. Our genome is in a continual war with viruses. In this case, by mechanisms we have yet to understand, the infectious part of the virus was knocked out, and the virus was put to use making syncytin for the placenta. Viruses brought the protein to the genome, and the attacker’s genome was hacked to be useful for the host.
      different syncytins derived from different invaders. Our DNA is not entirely an inheritance from ancestors. Viral invaders have inserted themselves and been put to work: our ancestors’ battles with them have been one of the many roots of invention.
