#### The Lost Way to the Good: Dionysian Platonism, Shin Buddhism, and the Shared Quest to Reconnect a Divided World (Plant, Thomas)
      Al-Ghazali had found Avicenna too Aristotelian; for Averroes, Avicenna was not Aristotelian enough.
      Relativism is the progeny of those three distant ancestors whose genesis I promised we would trace: voluntarism, nominalism, and individualism.
      To speak of God as Being and us as beings was not to use the word “being” in exactly the same way; rather, we could refer to concrete beings only by analogy to that incomprehensible act and source of being which is God. Aquinas develops this point with an unexpected comparison to bull’s urine (surely an “unlike likeness” in which the Areopagite would rejoice).8 We may determine that a bull is healthy because its urine is healthy, but the word “healthy” does not mean exactly the same thing in both instances.
      Western educationalists have kept at their work of cultivating cultural amnesia in the young. We have no tradition, they say, or no tradition that is any good.
      Once we have broken away from the idea that God is a being or even “Being” itself in any static sense, and recognize him as more verb than noun, more action than subject or object, we can begin to see God as what he does rather than what he is. In the end, that is as much as we can hope for.
      Yet for Platonists, including St Augustine himself, evil is not so much a reality as a deficiency of reality—that is, of the true reality, which is God. Evil is an absence, a lack of divine goodness.
      We have lost that capacity for myth and reduced our interaction with reality to empiricism or metaphor, with no room for anything in between. This leads to a dualism between myth and fact, imagination and reason, metaphysics and physics, grace and nature, which Iamblichus himself warned against: a disenchantment that “spells the ruin of all holy ritual and theurgic communion between gods and men,” leaving the cosmos “a desert, without gods.”9 Order is seen as something to be imposed or opposed, rather than discerned.
      We pray to enter the darkness beyond light: to see through unseeing that which is beyond sight, to know through unknowing that which is beyond knowledge, even by not seeing, by not knowing. For this is to see and to know truly, and in a way beyond being to hymn that which is beyond being—through the carving away of all beings, just as the makers of natural37 statues carve out all the obstacles which prevent the clear sight of that which is hidden and, simply by carving away, bring to light the beauty which had been hidden away.
      It is likely that more churches were destroyed by these revolutionaries in the three years between 2014 and 2017 than all the previous centuries of Islamic rule combined. 
      His use of language is precise: agnoountes is a participle, not the adverb “ignorantly,” not the noun phrase “in ignorance,” but a verbal adjective indicating process: it is, precisely, by the act of unknowing that the Athenians give proper honor (which is the meaning of eusebeite) to God.
      The origin, goal, and sustainer of being, but himself beyond being, God is not in duality with the cosmos. God is not another being within the cosmos, and so cannot be dualistically other to it. Nor, though, is God monistically identical with the cosmos.
      Those of more postmodern bent are faced with the incoherence of setting targets for diversity of race or gender while forbidding any diversity of thought
      Relativism ultimately falls into its own trap, for by its own logic it is itself only one culturally conditioned way of thinking, incapable of claiming hegemony over any other. But if relativism itself cannot claim to be true, on what basis can it establish itself other than by the victory of the most powerful will? This is why Pope John Paul II and Pope Benedict have condemned it as the greatest danger of modernity.
      No longer is God a singer calling melodies into being, creative play, and harmony; he is a taskmaster making playthings for his unknowable pleasure and barking orders at them through the firmament; no longer an artist painting images resplendent with his own inner light, but a draughtsman delineating implacable laws; no longer the transcendent rays that penetrate all being to give life, growth, and sight, but a metaphysical lantern that shines on whom it wills; not one in the sense of indivisible unity of all but in the strict numerical sense of one and other; not the verb of giving but the noun of giver.
      if our souls are made in the image of God, then they too are incomprehensible to us. Here Platonism and Christianity cohere, for unlike the Aristotelian empiricists, both Plato and St Paul were wary of the evidence of our senses. Our self-reflection is unreliable. We must go beyond reflection, beyond cognition, to embrace a foolish unknowing if we are to enter into the wisdom of God.
      We need to remember that Christians are not, overall, the odd ones out: the empiricists and materialists are a minority in face of the collective weight of the world’s philosophical traditions.
      It is not just that self-emptying for the sake of love is something God does: it is what God is.
      God is, as far as definitions can allow, an emptiness, or perhaps better, the act of emptying.
      His strict Aristotelianism led to the skeptical sundering of the material world from any sense of transcendent value, and this has proven both a boon and curse to the post-Enlightenment West: a boon in its openness to empirical experimentation and the great scientific benefits we have enjoyed therefrom, but a curse in its technologization of the world and one another, the false belief that science offers the solutions to the very problems which it causes.
      worked. The effect of Bishop Alopen’s mission was such that in AD 638 the Emperor proclaimed: The Greatly-virtuous Alopen, of the kingdom of Syria, has brought his sacred books and images from that distant part, and has presented them at our chief capital. Having examined the principles of this religion, we find them to be purely excellent and natural; investigating its originating source, we find it has taken its rise from the establishment of important truths; its ritual is free from perplexing expressions, its principles will survive when the framework is forgotten; it is beneficial to all creatures; it is advantageous to mankind.
      Theologians of the late twentieth century, such as Don Cupitt, have gone so far as to claim that atheistic secularism is the apogee of the Christian faith.
      of eliminating sexual binaries by binarizing body from mind and nature from culture; of arguing that gender and even sex are distinctions with no more than a socially constructed reality while professing support for women’s rights; of denouncing all social constructs yet advocating socialism; of castigating imperialism while militating to erase any cultural resistance to their own ideology. The incoherence, in short, of declaring that the default worldview should be that there is no default worldview. If no worldview is ultimately true, then why should anyone believe theirs?
      Some scholars, such as St Thomas’s younger contemporary Siger of Brabant (1240–1284), were so enthusiastic in their adoption of Averroes that they argued for a complete separation of philosophy from theology. St Bonaventure (1217–1274) was one of the many Latin theologians who saw this “new” Aristotelian thought as a threat to the free agency of God implied in the Christian doctrine of creation.
      Dionysius brings the cataphatic and apophatic approaches together. God is both all things in all things, and nothing in anything;
      We are fundamentally incapable of perfection, not because we differ from God in scale, but because perfection resides in God alone. This is a metaphysical point before it becomes a social one.
      The message is that in our busyness, the relentless swirling activity of our lives, we are blind to our true reflection. Unless we make time to rest and to examine ourselves with honesty and clarity, we are unable to see how ravaged we are by sin.
      Christ’s Incarnation is the realization in time of God’s eternal, unchanging, transcendent yearning to draw the created order into the uncreated heart of his divine love.
      Dionysius is saying that we can reach spiritual oneness with God, theosis, not despite the created world, but through it; not despite one another, in isolation, but through one another in the Church; not despite the matter of the cosmos, but through the matter of bread and wine, itself as much the work of seasons and ecosystems as of human hands.
      God is what he does: erotic, ecstatic kenosis.
      Instead, the Syriac word “Allaha” is transliterated into Chinese characters and left untranslated, as though it were a proper name. Like the cognate Arabic word Allah, it means not just “God” but “the God.” The definite article places God beyond any multiplicity of gods. Dionysius and the non-Christian Platonists were
      The self-emptying of God into which all being is called is not a destructive act, not an emptying out to a nihilistic nothingness. Rather, it is the realization that any given being, including humans, have no existence at all except in relationship to one another and to God. In their own right, all things are already empty.
      The thread that had bound Europeans to the rest of the world and to one another was, in the broadest sense, Platonism. This allowed the West to join in an endeavor, shared from Ireland to Beijing, of articulating not just physical but metaphysical reality. Medieval Christian scholars had seen truth in the works of Muslims and Jews, all of whom were working in recognizably the same Platonic framework
      ; of militating for the downfall of consumer capitalism while promoting a consumerist mindset to sexuality and a proprietary approach to one’s own body; of decrying the hegemony of Western medicine while treating sexual differentiation by reproductive organs as a problem in need of surgical or pharmaceutical solutions
      In the twentieth century, J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, Dorothy L. Sayers, and the unjustly neglected Charles Williams formed the loose literary circle known as the Inklings, united by a commitment to restore the Platonic sense of wonder to the world.
      When a follower writes to him asking the relationship between the Name and the Vow, Shinran replies: I do not really understand how such a question as yours can arise, for although we speak of the Vow and the Name they are not two different things. There is no Name separate from the Vow and there is no Vow separate from the Name.17
      Plato’s ideal republic was, after all, the martial state of Sparta. His ideas exercised considerable influence on the political thought of Ayatollah Khomeini in the establishment of revolutionary Iran. Many moderns would side with philosopher Karl Popper in labelling Plato an enemy of the open society.
      Rather, the cosmos is the expression of the mind of God, spoken—perhaps, better, sung—into being, and returning to itself. All that exists is a theophany, a shining forth of divine light.
      For Platonists like Dionysius, God is the Good by definition, insofar as we can define God at all. That anything exists at all is simply because God is good, and it is in his nature to create. Therefore, insofar as something is, it is good; evil is a deficiency of being, of reality and therefore of goodness.
      School textbooks tell us that Buddhists see this world as one of sheer illusion and Buddha as the only reality. This, I am afraid, is as much a simplification as certain Buddhist (and, for that matter, atheist) notions of the Christian God as supreme being who creates and acts by the exercise of sheer, arbitrary will.
      The missionary Bishop Alopen arrived in the imperial court of China in 635.
      Dionysius wants us to negate even such negations of God, stripping away the delusion that our feeble reasoning can aspire to the folly of divine wisdom.
      theurgy, he writes, is absolutely not a matter of mortals manipulating divine energy using matter, but rather, divine energy working through matter to bring the material realm closer to its spiritual perfection. Theurgy was not us working on the gods. It was opening the channels for the gods to work in us:
      For Platonic theologians, God is the Good, the Beautiful, and the True; in the modern Western understanding, if God is at all, he dictates what is good, beautiful, and true. His will transcends all.
      For Platonists like Dionysius, the highest orthodoxy is truth, wherever it may be found.
